Reports and analysis
====================

You can use CiviReport or CiviCRM's search features for reporting on and
analysing contributions. 

Contribution reports
--------------------

Out of the box, CiviCRM comes with thirteen contribution reports
designed to help you analyse your contributions.

A **contribution summary report** allows you group contributions by
different criteria including including the contact that made the
contribution, time period, type, location and view summary statistics
for these contributions. The accompanying **contribution detail
report** is automatically called when clicking on any rows from the
summary report. It can also be called on its own to provide a detailed
report for a specific subset of contributions. These two reports can be
useful for analyses such as what percentage of our income is coming from
different fundraising campaigns, or from events vs. memberships, etc. 

The **repeat contribution report**compares the total amount of
contributions that contacts have made in two different time periods. As
well as the totals, it shows the percentage increase/decrease. This
report is useful for tracking contacts who have stepped up their giving,
or who giving less than before. **SYBUNT** **report** AND **LYBUNT**
**report** are two strangely named but useful reports that allow you to
find donors that gave in 'some years / last year but not this year'. 

Two reports, the **contribution by household report**and **contribution
by organisation** **report**allow you to aggregate

contributions by household or organisation. This is useful for
organisations that make use of these two concepts. For example, you can
see all contributions that have been made by employees of one
organisation and thank them as a whole, or see the contributions made by
a particularly active family. These reports will also include any
donations that are attached to the organisation or household record, for
example a donation made by the organisation after an collective office
fundraising event.

The **top donors report**provides a list of the top donors during a time
period you define. You can include as many donors as you want (for
example, top 100 of your donors).

The **personal campaign page report** is useful to get an overview of
the status of all personal campaign pages. You can filter by
contribution page to see personal campaign pages for a single campaign
and other appropriate criteria.

The **soft credit report** is useful for looking at all your soft
credits and seeing who are at least partially responsible for other
people's donations.

The **contribution aggregate by relationship report** lists a contact's
donation history, grouped by year, along with contributions attributed
to any of the contact's related contacts.

The **recurring contributions report**provides information about the
status of recurring contributions.

The **bookkeeping transactions report** provides transaction details for
all payments, including financial type and accounts, transaction number,
invoice ID, payment instrument and check number.

These reports has been configured to display particular information but
you can create a new report from the relevant report template to suit
your particular needs. See *Reporting Set-up* for details. 

Searching based on contribution data
------------------------------------

CiviCRM makes an important distinction between contributions and the
people that made the contributions. It is important to appreciate the
difference between the two when you are searching contributions. For
example, if you want to send a gift to all people that made a
contribution in the last year, what would be more appropriate? Contacts
or contributions? The answer depends on whether you want to send two
gifts to people that made two contributions and there is of course no
right or wrong answer - it just depends on your approach. It is
important to think about this each time to do a search.

The **Find contributions** search allows you to search based on
contribution data and return contribution records. The **Advanced
search** allows you to search based on some limited contribution data
(and combine that with other contact information) and return contacts.
You can also choose **contribution** from the **Display Results As**
column to show contributions rather than contacts.

Searching based on criteria gives you access to simple totals and also
the option to export as CSV for further analysis. 

More analysis
-------------

If you can't do what you want with a built in report or search, consider
commissioning a new report or custom search. Read the CiviReport section
for more information.


